---
layout: post
title: The Supreme Gift-Giver
date: 2017-11-20 00:00:00 -0600
categories: devotions
type: devotion
thumb: /assets/img/resources/thumb/the-supreme-gift-giver.jpg
header: /assets/img/resources/full/the-supreme-gift-giver.jpg
author: Dylan Howard
preview: If God is the Supreme Gift Giver, God delights in giving good gifts to His people, and all good gifts come from God, then we have great hope in our lives as we face each day.
---
<p class="quote">"Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change."</p>
<p class="quote">James 1:17</p>
<hr>
<p>Recently the Lord has profoundly deepened my understanding of His glory as it is revealed around us. Shadows or images are revealed throughout the Bible. The Passover lamb is a shadow of our truer and better Passover Lamb. The Exodus is a shadow of our truer and better deliverance from sin into the promised land of God’s eternal kingdom. Marriage between man and woman is a shadow of our truer and better union with Christ—being brought into joyful companionship with the Trinity. All of these (and more) use presently visible realities—realities that are to be enjoyed by us, thus glorifying God—to cast an image of divine wonders—wonder that magnify these truths to the infinite and perfect degree, thus glorifying God even more. This simultaneous stimulation of both our worldly and spiritual senses greatly deepens our satisfaction in all that God has provided us in our earthly sojourn. It shows both God’s present provision, and His heavenly gifts to come.</p>
<p>However, this is not where the Lord has stopped teaching me. Not only has He deepened my appreciation of these inspired images and shadows, but He’s opened my eyes to the wonder that surrounds me in all areas. Jonathan Edwards explained that the Bible’s use of images and shadows provide us with a framework to understand these images and shadows, and the Lord’s creation provides us with many other images and shadows to interpret with this framework. That is, the Bible provides us with a sort of grammar for images, while creation provides us with the words. While these images, unlike the biblically-provided ones, are uninspired and, therefore, not flawless, they can enhance our seeing and savoring Christ. With both, we unveil the mysteries of heaven in all that surrounds us. This could be as simple as seeing the joy and satisfaction in friendship, but understanding the eternally increasing and infinitely satisfying relationship with God.</p>
<p>I’ve meditated on many of these recently, and the Lord has shown Himself sweeter and sweeter with each passing thought. However, I wanted to write to you about one of these specifically.</p>
<p>More than likely, you’ve heard of the 5 love languages. In case you haven’t, they are: Physical touch, quality time, words of affirmation, acts of service, and gift giving. I’ve had the most trouble with the last of these. I looked down on this means of affection as materialism-driven and woefully-depraved. However, I noticed today that God actually shows His love through gift giving. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above (James 1:17), from God who gives generously (James 1:15). God lavished His church with many spiritual gifts (1 Corinthians 12:4). God has given faith to His people (Ephesians 2:8). Even the word for "grace"—that is lavished on His elect (Ephesians 1:8)—is derived from the word for "gift". The pinnacle of this all is that God has given His son to redeem His rebellious children. (John 3:16) For me to slight the love language of gift giving is for me to defame the Supreme Gift Giver.</p>
<p>Understanding that God is the Supreme Gift Giver gives us a deep and calming assurance. Consider the hymn lyrics, "come thou fount of every blessing." Or even the doxology, "praise God from whom all blessings flow." These songs—and, I assure you, the praises of heaven also—are laced with language that recognizes and resounds with thankfulness towards God’s gift giving attributes. Furthermore, God doesn’t half-heartedly give good gifts to us. He delights in lavishing us with gifts. (Jeremiah 32:41) His whole heart and soul are involved in His giving. Now, God’s gift giving is primarily for His own delight in Himself, and this is not the letter to explain this matter, but understand that we are joyful and fortunate beneficiaries in God’s master plan to satisfy Himself in His glory.</p>
<p>What does this mean for our lives though? What does it look like to live this out? This is where I so often fail. My heart is slow to learn and weak to put into motion these profound promises. If God is the Supreme Gift Giver, God delights in giving good gifts to His people, and all good gifts come from God, then we have great hope in our lives as we face each day. Even now, when I struggle with anxiousness regarding possibilities in the near future, I can rest in the knowledge that these possibilities, if they are truly good, will be given by God, from whom all blessings flow freely. I am also assured that, if these desires are not truly best, they won’t be given.</p>
<p>In short, recognizing God as the Supreme Gift Giver causes deep rest in His children as they sojourn with a boundless optimism—an optimism that is buttressed by God’s sovereignty good.</p>
<hr>
<p class="quote">MOST HIGH GOD,</p>
<p class="quote">Your ways know no change. Your goodness knows no limit. Your love knows no end. You delight in lavishing Your people with good gifts. These gifts aren’t merely the fulfillment of our shallow materialistic cravings, but these gifts are the true and sure fulfillment of our soul’s deepest longings. To know You is our greatest joy, but our hearts are hard to change, our minds are slow to learn, and our flesh is weak to follow.</p>
<p class="quote">Lord, according to Your vast mercy and steadfast love, give us a greater insight into this heavenly reality. Let us be overwhelmed with optimism as we rest in the promises You have given to us. Let us not be discouraged by doubt, but strengthen by the knowledge of Your goodness. Let us not be ravaged by unbelief, but empowered by confident hope that You sovereignly operate all things for Your maximum glory and our maximum good.</p>
<p class="quote">To You be all glory among all people through all generations.</p>
